Task: How to make bacon, egg, and cheese sandwich

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Cook the Bacon
Begin by cooking your bacon. Or you can use ham, sausage patty, or leave off the meat altogether. I like to use three strips of bacon, but you can reduce that amount or of course use more if you wanted. 

Step 2: Bread and Eggs
Take softened butter and spread it onto one side of each slice of bread. I typically use white bread, but you can use whatever kind of slices of bread that you want. Add both eggs to a small bowl along with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. Mix with a fork or small whisk. 

Step 3: Cook That Sandwich
Set your burner to medium heat. Then add a 12-inch skillet. The size of your bread will determine what size of skillet you use. You need to be able to fit both slices of bread next to each other on the bottom of the skillet.Add about a tablespoon of butter to a skillet and make sure to coat the whole bottom of it with butter. You may also use something like an avocado spray or other cooking spray, or just add a bit of oil instead of butter. Maybe you want to use the bacon grease? Go for it. Pour the egg mixture and tilt the skillet as needed to coat the whole bottom with the egg as if we were making an omelet. Lay the slices of bread bottoms side by side with the buttered side up.Let the egg cook for a few minutes until it looks a little dry on top and there is no more liquidy egg. Then take your turner and go underneath to the middle so you get both slices of bread and then flip it. This takes some practice so don't be worried if you don't get it flipped really well on the first try. Once flipped use the turner to fold up the sides of the egg so they are in line with the sides of the bread. Add a slice or two of cheese, then the bacon strips. Fold over one slice of bread on top forming the sandwich. Now cook it like a grilled cheese sandwich. It will take a minute or two to brown each slice of bread. And just like that, you are done. 

Step 4: Serve
Serve the sandwich whole or slice it in half or diagonally. Enjoy!Print the bacon egg and cheese sandwich recipe here if you like.
