Task: How to Make Stovetop Garlic Oil

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Crush 4 cloves of garlic directly into a saucepan and pour in the olive oil.
Squeeze the cloves of garlic through a garlic press directly into the pan. Stir the garlic and the ⁄ 2 cup (120 ml) of olive oil together so the garlic is evenly distributed in the pan. You don’t need to peel the garlic before putting it in the press. The peel will stay in the press while you squeeze it. Substitute other oils for the olive oil based on your personal preferences. How to Choose a Type of Oil If you’re only using it for cooking , go with a neutral oil that can handle high temperatures, like canola, vegetable, or grapeseed oil. For a heart-healthy oil , choose extra-virgin olive oil or avocado oil, thanks to their monounsaturated fat content. If you want a unique flavor , try sesame oil. It’s one of the strongest oils and you’ll get a nice, nutty flavor.

Step 2: Heat the mixture over medium low heat for 3 to 5 minutes.
The heat helps infuse the flavor of the garlic into the oil. Cook the mixture, stirring it occasionally, until the garlic is light brown and slightly crispy. Don’t let the oil boil. When oil gets too hot, it loses some of its flavor and integrity. A light simmer is enough. Avoid overcooking the garlic. If it’s a very dark color, you’ve cooked it too long and the oil will be bitter.

Step 3: Remove the pan from the heat and pour the mixture into a container.
Let the mixture cool completely before placing the lid on the airtight container and sealing it tightly. This prevents excess moisture from gathering in the container and spoiling the oil. If you don’t want tiny bits of garlic in your oil, you can strain it through a colander or sieve as you pour the mixture into the container. Leaving the garlic pieces in the oil will create a stronger flavor as it continues to infuse over time.

Step 4: Keep the oil in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
You can shake the container every so often to mix up the flavors. Throw the oil away after 5 days if you haven’t used it, just to be safe and avoid ingesting dangerous bacteria. Never keep garlic oil at room temperature. It can cause botulism, which is a sometimes fatal form of food poisoning most often found in preserved food. Freeze the garlic oil for up to 1 year if you want it to last longer.

Step 5: Crush 8 cloves of garlic with the back of a knife.
Place the cloves on a plastic, ceramic, or glass cutting board. Then, use the palm of your hand to press the flat end of a wide knife blade onto each clove. Push hard enough to crush the clove and split the skin. Leave the peels on while you crush the garlic. Otherwise, the cloves will be too slippery and you could cut yourself with the knife. Avoid using a wooden cutting board. It will absorb some of the garlic’s flavor.

Step 6: Remove and discard the garlic peel.
The skin should come off the cloves very easily once they’re crushed. Throw the peel in the trash or put it in a compost bin. If the peel is tough to remove, you may need to crush the garlic a little more.

Step 7: Combine the crushed garlic and 2 cups (470 ml) of olive oil in a jar.
Any glass jar with an airtight lid will work. After screwing the lid on the jar, shake it a few times to mix up the garlic and the oil. You can substitute any type of oil, like avocado oil or grapeseed oil, for the olive oil, depending on the flavor you want or what you have in the pantry. Add spices or herbs for different flavor options. Additional Mix-Ins for Flavored Oil Dried herbs (lavender, thyme, parsley, basil, etc.) Spices Hot peppers Olives Citrus zest Peppercorns Dried edible flowers

Step 8: Store the jar in the refrigerator for 2 to 5 days.
This gives it enough time for the flavors to blend thoroughly. Make sure the jar is sealed tightly while it’s in the fridge to keep the oil fresh. If you try to use the oil before 2 days, the flavors won’t be as strong. Throw the oil away after 5 days or you increase your risk of getting botulism, which is a type of food poisoning that comes from canned or preserved foods and can be deadly. You can also freeze the garlic oil for up to 1 year.
