Task: How to Boil Okra

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Rinse and trim the okra.
Turn on the cold water at the sink, and gently run the okra under it to wash away any dirt or debris on the surface. Pat it dry with a clean kitchen towel, and use a sharp knife to cut the stems down to ½-inch (13-mm).

Step 2: Place the okra in a large pot and cover it with water.
Use a pot that's large enough to fit the okra so it doesn't occupy more than three-quarters of the capacity. Add enough cold water to the pot to just cover the okra. A 3-quart (2.8 l) pot is a good size for boiling the okra.

Step 3: Season the water with salt.
Before you boil the water, it's important to season it to ensure that the boiled okra is as flavorful as possible. Adding the salt to the water allows the okra to absorb some of it as it boils. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt to the pot, and stir gently to ensure that it's evenly distributed.

Step 4: Bring the pot to a boil.
Place the pot with the okra on the stove, and turn the heat to high. Allow the water to come to a boil, which should take about 5 to 7 minutes.

Step 5: Pour the vinegar into the pot.
Once the water is boiling, add ¼ cup (59 ml) of cider vinegar to the pot. Don't stir it in, though -- stirring can disturb the cooking process for the okra. You can substitute any type of vinegar or even lemon juice for the cider vinegar.

Step 6: Boil the okra until it's fork tender.
After you've mixed in the vinegar, allow the okra to boil for 3 to 5 minutes. At the 3 minute mark, start testing the okra with a fork. When it's tender enough to pierce, it's finished boiling. Be careful not to overcook the okra or it may become slimy and mushy.

Step 7: Drain the okra and return it to the pan.
When the okra is finished cooking, remove the pot from the stove. Pour the contents through a colander to drain the water from the okra, and then put it back in the pot.

Step 8: Mix in the butter and pepper.
Add ¼ cup (55 g) of butter and black pepper to taste to the okra. If necessary, you can also season the mixture with more salt.  If you prefer, you can substitute bacon drippings or olive oil for the butter. You can substitute or incorporate other seasonings along with the pepper. Turmeric, cumin, chili powder, and coriander all work well with okra.

Step 9: Cook the okra over low heat until the butter melts.
Place the pot back on the stove, and turn the heat to low. Allow it to cook until the butter melts, which should take about 3 minutes. Stir the okra frequently to ensure that it's well coated with the butter.

Step 10: Remove the okra from the pan and serve.
Once the butter is melted and the okra is coated, turn the heat off. Use a pair of tongs to transfer the okra from the pot to a platter, and serve while it's still warm. Store any leftover okra in an airtight container in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for up to 3 days.