Task: How to make Beef Stew

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Ingredients
1-2 pounds beef stew meat
3 stalks of celery
3-6 potatoes (3 if they're large, 6 if they're small)
4 carrots
1 onion
1/2 - 1 cup frozen peas (optional)
3-4 cloves garlic
4 tablespoons tomato paste
1/4 cup soy sauce
8 cups of liquid (make sure to do at least 2 cups of beef stock!)
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1-2 teaspoons dried thyme
2 bay leaves (if you have them on hand, I didn't!)
flour for coating the beef
freshly ground black pepper

Step 2: Cooking on Stovetop
Make sure to use a big, big pot. You will want to simmer the beef, onion, celery, garlic, soy sauce, tomato paste by themselves for at least two hours. Don't add in the potatoes and carrots right away - they'll break down too much! Once the meat is nice and tender, feel free to add in the carrots and potatoes and simmer for another 30-45 minutes. Then you can adjust the seasonings and add cornstarch to thicken.

Step 3: Cut Up the Veggies!
I like to cut the celery and onions more fine, and leave the carrots and potatoes in big chunks. Just keep in mind that the smaller you cut things, the more likely they are to cook so much they fall apart.

Step 4: Trim and Flour the Meat
Try to cut all the pieces down the to same size. Once that's done, coat the beef liberally with pepper and then throw a couple of handfuls of flour on it as well and mix it around until every piece is nice and coated.

Step 5: Brown the Beef/saute the Veg
Heat a little bit of oil over medium high heat until it shimmers. Then drop in the floured beef and cook until it's lightly browned and doesn't smell of raw flour anymore. This should take only a few minutes. Once it's done, add the celery, onions and garlic and mix well. Cook these, stirring often, until the onions begin to get slightly translucent.

Step 6: Add the Tomato Paste/thyme
Once the veggies are getting soft, add in your tomato paste and thyme. Mix this around and let it cook until the thyme gets fragrant.

Step 7: Add the Potatoes and Carrots!
Add them in and stir them around so everything is nicely coated with the seasonings.

Step 8: Add the Stock, Water and Soy Sauce and Cook!
Add your liquids along with 1/4 cup soy sauce. Mix well and then cover! On the stove you'll want to simmer it over low heat for at least two hours - make sure to stir every now and then!

Step 9: Adjusting Seasonings and Adding Soy Sauce
Once you're done cooking, taste for seasonings. At this point you can add a little more soy sauce or tomato paste, a bit more thyme or some black pepper.

Step 10: Thicken It!
Put two tablespoons of cornstarch in a small bowl or cup. Add about 1/4 cup of hot stock from the stew into the cornstarch and mix well with a fork or whisk. Once the cornstarch has dissolved, pour the mixture into the stew. Turn up the heat and cook for a few minutes until nice and thick!

Step 11: If You Want Peas, Add Them Now!
Turn off the heat and add in your frozen peas.

Step 12: Enjoy!

