Task: How to Cook Mashed Rutabaga

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Wash the rutabaga.
Rinse the rutabaga under cool water and scrub the skin with a vegetable brush. This will remove any excess dirt from the surface of the vegetable. Pat the rutabaga dry with a clean towel or paper towel. Make sure that the rutabaga is completely dry to prevent an accident when you're peeling and chopping.

Step 2: Peel the rutabaga.
Carefully slice off the top and bottom stems from the rutabaga. Trim about ½ inch (1.3 cm) off the top and bottom. Stand the rutabaga on the top end and cut it in half. Use a paring knife to carefully peel off the top layer of skin. Vegetable peelers aren't always effective for rutabaga, which has a skin that’s often covered in a thick waxy coating.

Step 3: Chop the rutabaga into small chunks.
Use a kitchen knife and cut the peeled halves into 1-inch (2.5-cm) chunks. This will help the rutabaga to cook faster. Cut all the chunks to the same size and thickness to ensure even cooking.

Step 4: Boil the rutabaga.
Transfer the chunks to a large stockpot and cover the rutabaga with water. Add an extra inch or two (2.5 to 5 cm) of water to ensure the rutabaga is completely covered. Put on a lid and heat the rutabaga over medium-high heat. When the water comes to a boil, reduce the heat to medium and simmer for another 30 to 40 minutes. The rutabaga is ready when a fork can easily pierce the flesh.

Step 5: Drain and mash the rutabaga.
When the rutabaga is cooked through, pour the contents of the stockpot through a colander to drain the water. Return the rutabaga to the pot. Add the butter and nutmeg. Use a potato masher, hand mixer, or fork to mash the rutabaga until it’s smooth.  You can leave some small chunks of rutabaga in the mash if you like, or puree it until it’s completely smooth and free of chunks. For an extra creamy mash, add a dollop of sour cream to the rutabaga as well.

Step 6: Season before serving.
Add salt and pepper, to taste, and stir the seasonings into the mash. You can also add fresh or dried herbs, such as dill, oregano, or rosemary, or other seasonings like minced garlic. Serve the mashed rutabaga while it’s still hot, either on its own or as a side dish with roast beef, duck, or stir fry.
