Task: How to Dry Orange Peels

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Wash the oranges.
Use a fruit wash to clean the peels and remove any wax or pesticides. Put only a small amount on the orange and rub it into the skin, then rinse it away fully with running water. If you don’t have a fruit wash, rinse the orange in hot water to dissolve the wax.

Step 2: Peel the oranges
Dry the oranges, then peel them by hand, with a sharp knife, or with a vegetable peeler. Remove as much of the white pith from the skin as possible, as it has a bitter flavor. Simply scrape the pith off the peel with a knife or spoon.

Step 3: Cut the peels into even pieces.
Depending on what you plan to use the peels for, you may want to cut them into large chunks (for potpourri) or thin strips (for infusing oils). No matter what you want them for, the pieces should be even in size so they dry at the same rate. Keep in mind that the peels can always cut into smaller pieces or ground up after you dry them.

Step 4: Spread them on a parchment-lined baking sheet.
Place a sheet of parchment paper on top of a baking sheet. Then, place the peels on the parchment paper in a single layer, without any overlap.

Step 5: Bake the peels for 30 to 60 minutes at 200 °F (93 °C).
You want your oven to be at the lowest possible setting, which is usually 200 °F (93 °C). Check on the peels often to be sure they don’t burn. They’re done when the peels harden and curl. Remove the tray from the oven and let the peels cool completely. Alternatively, you can leave the orange peels on the baking sheets out in the open at room temperature for several days to dry them out. Stir them once per day.

Step 6: Grind the dried orange peels, if desired.
The decision to grind the peels or leave them whole will depend on how you plan to eat or otherwise use them. If you want orange peel powder for marinades, flavored salts, or sugar scrubs, you can grind the dried peels in a coffee grinder or food processor. Otherwise, leave them in strips or chunks.

Step 7: Store them in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 3 months.
A jar or Tupperware container will work well for storing orange peels, and they will last for up to 3 months in the refrigerator. You can use this method to dry the peels of other citrus fruits, including lemons and limes, as well!

Step 8: Add dried orange peels to tea.
Put a strip or two of dried orange peel into a cup of your favorite freshly-steeped tea. The orange flavor is especially delicious with green or black tea.

Step 9: Infuse oil with strips of dried orange peel.
Put ⁄4 cup (59 ml) of oil (like olive or coconut) in a jar and add a few strips of dried orange peel. The more you add, the more intense the orange flavor will be. Cover the jar with a tight-fitting lid and allow the oranges to steep in the oil for about a week. Use orange-infused oil in homemade salad dressing, drizzle it over veggies and roast them, or use it in your favorite baking recipe.

Step 10: Flavor salt with ground orange peels and herbs.
Add ground orange peels and dried thyme or rosemary to a jar full of your favorite salt. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and use the flavored salt to add an extra dimension to your next meal. It is also a wonderful homemade gift idea.

Step 11: Use dried orange peels in potpourri.
Fill an airtight container with dried orange peels, cinnamon sticks, nutmeg, cloves, dried flowers, and a few drops of an essential oil like clove, orange, or cinnamon. Let it sit for 3 days, shaking the container a few times each day, to allow the aroma to strengthen. Then, place the potpourri in a pretty vase or bowl and set it out in your home.

Step 12: Make an orange peel sugar scrub.
Combine 1 cup (225 g) of sugar, ⁄2 cup (120 ml) of coconut oil, and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) (12.5 g) of ground dried orange peel in a bowl. Stir thoroughly to combine all the ingredients, then transfer the mixture to a jar and cover it with a lid. Use it to scrub your body in the shower for smooth, orange-scented skin.

Step 13: Finished.
