Task: How to make homemade peach cobbler

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Prep the Peaches
Preheat the oven to 375F/190C. Rinse and dry the peaches then slice them into small pieces. You can peel the peaches if desired, I never do. Place the small thin peach slices into a medium to large pot. Next, add 1 cup of the 2 cups of sugar, the zest of 1 lemon, and the juice from half of that lemon.NOTE:You can reduce the amount of sugar to 1/2 cup if you don't want it very sweet, or even less depending on how ripe and sweet your peaches already are.

Step 2: Cook Those Peaches
Place the pot on a burner and set the heat between medium-low and medium. Stir occasionally and cook until it boils.NOTE:If using canned peaches, you only really need to heat them until the sugar dissolves completely, no need to bring it to a boil.

Step 3: Prep the Batter
While the peaches are cooking, which will take around 10 minutes or so to bring them to a boil, prepare the batter. Add the flour, salt, baking powder, the other 1 cup of sugar, and cinnamon to a medium bowl and whisk. Or place all the ingredients in a sifter and sift them into the bowl.Add the milk and whisk until all combined then add the vanilla extract and mix. I always use a whisk but you can use a hand mixer as well. 

Step 4: Bake That Peach Cobbler
Melt the butter and pour it on the bottom of a 13x9-inch pan. Tilt the pan so the butter covers the bottom. It's okay if the butter isn't completely melted, mostly melted is fine.You can melt the butter in the microwave, on the stovetop in a pot, or in the pan in the oven while it is preheating, just keep an eye on it so the butter doesn't burn.Now pour the batter over the butter and make sure it is evenly distributed on the bottom of the pan.Next, pour the peaches over the top along with all the liquid and evenly spread those out. Sprinkle cinnamon and nutmeg on top if desired.Bake again at 375F/190C for 35 to 45 minutes until it is nice and golden brown on the top.

Step 5: Cool and Serve
Allow the peach cobbler to cool for 10 to 15 minutes then you can serve. You shouldn't need a knife to cut it into squares, just use a turner. It usually takes about 12 servings.Enjoy!NOTE/TIP: There are a few types of cobbler one that is a batter based like this one, and then one that has more of a biscuit/scone style topping. I kind of like the batter-based ones a little better, just a personal preference. But you could skip the batter pour the peach mixture right on top of the butter in the pan then lay down these homemade biscuits on top, then bake it. That will give it a more pronounced "Cobbled" look on top. If you use the biscuits just roll them or press them thinner so they don't puff up so high when they bake. Print the homemade peach cobbler recipe here if you want.
