Task: How to Cook Aubergine by Roasting

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Wash the aubergine thoroughly.
Check for brown spots or bruises. If the skin is in good shape, it is edible, though some varieties have skin that is too tough to eat. Peel the skin with a vegetable peeler if you think it’s wise – younger aubergine skin is fine to eat, but older, more ripened aubergine skin has a bitter taste. Cut off the stem and base, too. Leave the skin on if you are baking aubergine whole in the oven or roasting it on the grill. It’s also best left on if you want to scrape out the insides later and make an aubergine mash.

Step 2: Cut the aubergine however your recipe dictates.
It could be halved lengthwise, cubed, diced or sliced. It’s sometimes a matter of personal preference, too. Just remember that if you're grilling it, keep it in larger chunks so it doesn't fall through the grates. If your recipe calls for mashed or pureed aubergine, do not cut it since you can bake it whole. This is the easiest way, too.

Step 3: Salt the exposed flesh of the aubergine.
This helps to draw out the bitterness that an aubergine can typically have. Salting also creates a denser flesh, making it less sponge-like so it will not absorb fat so easily. Keep them sitting in a colander for 20 to 30 minutes. If you need, you can skip this step. The aubergine will still be tasty, but it may have a slightly different consistency and be a little more bitter.

Step 4: Rinse the aubergine under water to remove the salt and thoroughly dry it.
This action keeps the aubergine from absorbing too much oil when cooking, keeping the aubergine's crunch. Make sure the aubergine is actually dry. Water left on may absorb into the meat of the veggie, making it chewier than is desirable.

Step 5: Preheat the oven to 230°C (450°F).
You’ll also need to line a baking pan with foil or lightly grease it. Alternatively, if you have one, you can use a Silpat (though a little greasing still wouldn't hurt).

Step 6: Peel the aubergine, if desired, and cut to size.
Consider a few of these variations:  Cut it into 3/4-inch cubes. Toss the cubes with garlic, olive oil, salt, and black pepper. Once all the cubes are covered, place into the pan. Bake your aubergine whole. Pierce the skin a few times when baking so it does not explode from expanding moisture. You can then scoop out the flesh for mashing or pureeing. Slice the aubergine length-wise and brush with olive oil and seasoning (diced onion, pepper, grated cheese, breadcrumbs and spices all work wonderfully).

Step 7: Roast the aubergine about 20 minutes or until tender.
If you're working with cubes, you may wish to stir them up about halfway through, or 10 minutes in. And if your oven cooks unevenly, turn the pan around as well. You want each piece to have that hint of crunch while still being tender. If you're roasting a whole aubergine, pierce it with a fork. If there is initial pressure and then it slides right in, your aubergine is fully cooked.
