Task: How to Poach Fish in Milk on the Stove

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Select your fish.
While you can poach any kind of fish, you should choose a fish that benefits from the flavor of being poached in milk. Delicate white fish works well and so do fillets of:   Bass Cod Haddock Halibut Salmon Sole, Tilapia

Step 2: Heat milk and salt in a saucepan.
Select a wide-bottomed saucepan and set it on the stove. Pour in 2 cups (500 ml) of whole milk and add a pinch of salt. Turn the heat on to low and bring the milk to a light simmer.  The milk should just bubble a little when it reaches a light simmer. You can also replace the milk with coconut milk, fish stock, or broth.

Step 3: Add the fish and poach it.
Place two fillets of skinless fish in the pan with simmering milk. Each piece should be about 1/3 of a pound (150g). The milk should come about halfway up the sides of the fish. Continue to simmer the milk after you've added the fish and let it cook for 5 to 8 minutes.  Try to select fillets of fish that are similar in size. This will ensure that they cook evenly. You don't need to turn or flip the fish as it poaches. This could cause it to fall apart or overcook.

Step 4: Check to see if the fish is done.
Take a bamboo or metal skewer and insert it into the thickest part of the poached fish. The skewer should slide right in and be easy to remove. If it's hard to poke the skewer into the fish, it needs to poach a little longer. If you take a fork and gently rub it over the fish, the fish should flake. Let the fish cook for another minute and check it again. Fish cooks quickly so, check it frequently.

Step 5: Remove and serve the poached fish.
Use a slotted spoon or fish turner to carefully lift the poached fish up and out of the milk. Serve the poached fish with fresh vegetables, roasted potatoes, rice, or a side of your choice. You can use the poaching liquid as a base for a creamy sauce. Try thickening the milk with a roux, cheese, or pureed vegetables (like cauliflower).
