Task: How to Make Deliciously Simple Chicken Curry

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Gather Your Ingredients
Half-chicken (cut into 8 pieces)
200g of Curry powder
An onion
Four gloves of garlic
About 1 inch of ginger (the skin is peeled)
A small bowl full of vegetable oil (about 350 ml)
salt
200 ml of coconut milk
Three large cups of water
A potato

Step 2: Prepare the Ingredients
Cut the onion in half lengthways from bulb end to tip. Remove the onion skin. By using knife, cut onion lengthways into four even pieces. Then, cut the other half of the onion the same way. Add four cloves of garlic together with the small-cut onions and 1 inch garlic in a blender. Add about 25 ml of water into the blender before blending. Next, peel the potato skin and cut it into half. Then cut each half into eight small pieces.

Step 3: Cook the Ingredients
Preheat 2-5 liter pot at 350 degree Fahrenheit. Then, pour 350 ml of vegetable oil into the pot. Wait for about 3-4 minutes. Add the blended onions, garlic and ginger into the pot. Next, stir the blended onions, garlic, and ginger using a wooden spoon occasionally every 1 minute to about 5 minutes. After that, add about 200 g of curry powder into the same pot and stir for about 1 minute. Cook the curry paste for 7 minutes more.

Step 4: Add Chickens and Other Ingredients
Add 8 pieces of chickens into the pot and after that, add about a small cup of water into the pot. Stir the chicken pieces with curry gravy. After that, add 200 ml coconut milk into the pot. Next, stir all ingredients in the pot until they are mixed evenly together. Add 3 small cups of water into the pot until all the chicken pieces are submerged in the gravy. Then, stir the ingredients until they are mixed evenly together. After the gravy boiled, add the potatoes into the pot and stir for about 10 seconds.

Step 5: Let All the Ingredients Cooked
Wait about 7-10 minutes until the potatoes become soft. Add about 1 spoonful of salt into the gravy. Finally have a taste of it. Add more salt if necessary. Serve it in an appropriate size bowl.
