Task: How to Prepare Hot Honey Lemon Tea

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Bring 1 cup (240 mL) of water to a boil and put it into a mug.
Put the water into a heatproof mug and microwave it for 30-60 seconds, or use a kettle on the stovetop and then pour the hot water into a mug. Use caution when handling hot liquids—use a dishtowel or oven mitt to protect your hands if needed. Every microwave varies on how long it’ll take to boil 1 cup (240 mL) of water. Start with 30 seconds and test the temperature to see if it’s hot enough. Keep adding 30 seconds to the timer until it gets to the right temperature.

Step 2: Steepa black tea bag in the hot water for 3-4 minutes.
After the tea has steeped, remove the bag from the mug. If you don’t like the taste or don’t want the caffeine from black tea, you can skip this step entirely. Many people enjoy hot honey lemon tea without any actual “tea” in it at all! You could also use green tea, chai tea, or even a lemon-flavored herbal tea.

Step 3: Stir honey and lemon juice into the hot water.
Use 2 tablespoons (30 mL) of honey and 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of lemon juice. If you’re using a fresh lemon, about 1/2 of one will give you 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of liquid. If you don’t have fresh lemons on hand, use bottled lemon juice for the same effect. Make sure to stir the mixture until you can no longer see honey at the bottom of the mug. Tip: If you add the honey to the mug before you pour in the hot water, it’ll dissolve faster.

Step 4: Add a fresh slice of lemon to the mug for an additional garnish.
Use a clean cutting board or knife to cut either a wedge or slice out of a lemon. Squeeze it into the mug or simply drop it into the liquid to add a little extra lemon to your tea. Fresh lemon is an invigorating scent; even just smelling the lemon as you cut into it can instantly boost your spirits.

Step 5: Enjoy your hot honey lemon tea, but be careful to not burn yourself!
Remember that the tea will be hot when you first go to drink it, so be careful to not burn your tongue. Hot honey lemon tea is delicious to enjoy on its own, but it can also be helpful if you have a cold or sore throat. Feel free to add more honey or sugar to your tea if you’d like it to be sweeter.
