Task: How to Make CBD Oil Gummies with Microwave

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Spray a silicone gummy mold with nonstick cooking spray.
Get out your choice of silicone molds so you have about 30 gummy cavities to fill. Then, spray the inside of the mold with nonstick cooking spray, which helps the gummies release easily. Place the greased mold on a baking sheet and set it aside.  Use as many molds as you need to equal 30 gummies. For example, you could use 2 molds if they both have 15 cavities. If you prefer, brush the inside of the mold with melted coconut oil.

Step 2: Pour a flavored beverage, corn syrup, and gelatin into a measuring jug.
Put 1 cup (240 ml) of a flavored beverage into a microwave-safe measuring jug or bowl. Add 2 tablespoons (40 g) of corn syrup and 4 1-ounce (7 g) packets of unflavored gelatin.  Try making CBD gummies with lemonade, sports drink, or juice. Just don't use juice that contains pineapple, kiwi, mango, ginger root, papaya, or figs since these prevent the gelatin from setting. Mixing the gummy liquid in a measuring jug makes it easier to pour the liquid into the mold.

Step 3: Stir the gummy mixture and let it sit for 1 minute.
Use a spoon to stir the gelatin and corn syrup into the liquid. As the liquid rests, the powdered gelatin will hydrate, but won't dissolve completely. The gelatin will dissolve as you heat the liquid in the microwave.

Step 4: Microwave the liquid for 1 minute and stir at the halfway point.
Put the measuring jug into the microwave and heat the gummy liquid on full power for 30 seconds. Stir the mixture well and microwave it for another 30 seconds. Then, stir the mixture again to help the gelatin dissolve completely. If you still see grainy gelatin in the liquid, microwave the mixture for another 30 seconds and stir it again.

Step 5: Let the mixture rest for 15 minutes.
Wear oven mitts to remove the jug from the microwave and set it on a wire rack. Leave the gummy mixture to cool for at least 15 minutes so it begins to thicken a little and look like gel. Avoid stirring the gummy mixture as it sets up.

Step 6: Stir in 1 ⁄2 teaspoons (7.4 ml) of CBD oil.
You can use any strength of CBD oil or use a CBD oil that also has THC. If you want mild-strength CBD gummies, use a 50mg CBD oil. For stronger CBD gummies, use a higher-strength oil, such as a 5,000mg CBD oil. You can find a variety of flavored CBD oils online here. This recipe creates 30 gummies that each have between 5 to 10 drops of CBD oil in them.

Step 7: Pour the mixture into the greased mold.
Slowly pour the liquid into each cavity of the mold. Ensure that you fill each cavity to the top so the gummies are easy to remove from the mold. If your mold came with a pipette, use it to squeeze small amounts of the mixture into each cavity.

Step 8: Refrigerate the gummies for 30 minutes.
Place the baking sheet with the mold into the refrigerator and chill the gummies until they're firm. Check them after 30 minutes to see if they're completely set.

Step 9: Remove the CBD gummies from the mold.
To get the gummies out of the mold, slowly peel the mold back and away from the gummies. Keep peeling the mold back so all of the gummies fall out. Store the CBD gummies in an airtight container in the refrigerator and use them within 1 week.
