Task: How to Make Mochi

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Mix mochiko with water to make a soft dough.
Put 1 cup (160 g) of mochiko into a heat-proof bowl and pour in 3 ⁄ 4 cup (180 ml) of water. Use a wooden spoon to stir until the mochiko is completely combined with the water. The dough should be soft and pliable. It's important to use the mochiko (sweet rice flour) or mochi flour. Avoid using glutinous flour since it will not mix properly and the mochi won't steam correctly. If the mochiko still looks dry once you've stirred in the water, add extra water 1 tablespoon (15 ml) at a time.

Step 2: Set up a steamer on the stove.
Put a large pot on the stove and pour 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) of water into it. Turn the burner to high so the water begins to boil. Then set a steamer insert into the pot and turn the burner down to medium-high. The water should be simmering. Ensure that the bottom of the steamer insert doesn't touch the water. The steamer insert should be large enough to hold the bowl with the mochi dough.

Step 3: Put the bowl of dough in the steamer and steam it for 20 minutes.
Once the water is simmering, place the bowl with the dough directly into the steamer insert. Lay a clean kitchen towel over the bowl so the sides extend over the pot. Then set the lid on the pot and fold the ends of the towel up onto the lid. Set a timer for 20 minutes to let the dough cook. If you don't have a steamer basket, cover the bowl and microwave the mochi dough for 3 1/2 minutes. The kitchen towel will absorb the moisture from the steam so it doesn't condense on the lid and fall onto the dough.

Step 4: Remove the dough and put it in a small pot.
Turn off the steamer and carefully lift the hot bowl of mochi dough out of the steamer insert. Scoop the steamed dough into a small pot and set the pot on the stove. The steamed dough will be gluey in texture at this point.

Step 5: Cook the dough over medium heat while you stir in the sugar.
Get out 2 cups (400 g) of sugar and set it next to the stove. Heat the steamed mochi dough in the pot over medium heat and stir in 1/3 of the sugar. Keep stirring until the sugar dissolves. Then stir in the remaining sugar in 2 batches. It should take you about 10 minutes to gradually add all of the sugar and cook it until it's dissolved. The mochi dough should now look stretchy, sticky, and smooth.

Step 6: Dust a baking sheet with cornstarch and put the mochi on it.
Set a rimmed baking sheet on your work surface and sprinkle enough cornstarch to cover the bottom of the sheet. Spoon the hot mochi onto the sheet. The cornstarch will make it easier to handle the sticky mochi dough.

Step 7: Cut the mochi dough small, bite-sized pieces.
Dust your hands or a rolling pin and spread the mochi as thin as you like. Take a knife and cut the dough into squares or rectangles that are even in size. Dust the pieces with kinako (soybean powder) and set them on a serving dish. It's important to cut the mochi into small pieces to reduce the risk of choking. Large pieces can easily become stuck in someone's throat and the gummy texture makes it difficult to swallow. If you prefer, just pinch off about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of dough. Roll the dough between your palms until you form a ball of mochi.

Step 8: Store the mochi for up to 2 days, if necessary.
The high amount of sugar will prevent the mochi from drying or cracking right away. For the best texture, try to eat the mochi as soon as possible. To store the mochi for the short term, put it in an airtight container and keep it at room temperature for up to 2 days.
