Task: How to Make Beer Batter

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Use one 12 oz beer you like to drink.
Beer batter can be made with any style or variety of beer, so you should feel free to experiment with different styles to see what you like best. If you've got Bud Lite on hand, that would make for just as good a beer batter as a craft IPA.  Generally, ales and lagers are used to make beer batters. The lighter and more carbonated, the lighter the batter. If you're not a big fan of beer flavors, use a lighter lager or a pilsner. Darker stouts, porters, and ales are also perfectly fine for making beer batter, and will add a malty richness to the batter. Sometimes, these beers are significantly less carbonated, so it might be a good idea to cut it with half sparkling water.

Step 2: Mix beer with equal parts of water, if you want.
It's fine to just use beer in the batter, but some people like to cut it in half with an equal amount of water to stretch the batter a bit, and to save the beer for drinking with dinner.  While beer batter is similar in some ways to a basic pancake batter, never add milk to beer batter. Milk added to beer will curdle, unless a small amount of lemon juice is added. If you're wondering, the process of frying the beer cooks off all the alcohol. Adding more beer won't make the fried food more boozy.

Step 3: Beat in one egg.
Into your beer mixture, beat an egg directly into the liquid, until it’s frothy. Some people leave this step out and just stick to a basic beer-and-flour batter, which is perfectly effective. But, beating in an egg helps to add a little body and golden richness to the batter, helping it to crisp up a little more nicely.

Step 4: Whisk in all-purpose flour.
Holding your whisk in one hand, start adding flour to the beer mixture, a few tablespoons at a time, whipping it vigorously to avoid lumps. Integrate all the flour you add until you add more. If you use one 12 oz bottle or can of beer, you'll need about 2 cups of flour to make batter. This will make enough batter to coat about 20 fish fillets.

Step 5: Add 3/4 teaspoon of baking powder.
If you want a fluffier, more cake-like beer batter, it's also good at this point to add about a 3/4 of baking powder, like if you were making pancakes. If you don't have it on hand, it's also fine to leave out.

Step 6: Continue whisking in flour until the batter reaches the desired thickness.
Depending on how much batter you're making, and what you're using with it, you may want it thicker, or thinner, depending. Some people prefer a thicker, hearty coating, while others prefer a thinner and lighter version, which can be more crispy. Totally up to you. Some people suggest adding flour until the whisker can stand straight up in the bowl. Match the batter to complement what you're making. If you're making a really light, flaky fish, or squash chips, try to keep the batter somewhat lighter in turn.

Step 7: Season to taste.
Generally, beer batter is seasoned with little more than salt and fresh black pepper, but you can use whatever seasonings match the dish that you're eventually planning to make.  If you're making fish, add a little Old Bay, or Cajun spice mix to the batter. If you're making vegetable chips or potato wedges, try adding a pinch of curry powder or turmeric with a pinch of spice to taste.
