Task: How to Make Chamomile Tea

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Add dried chamomile to your infuser or place a tea bag in your cup.
If you're using an infuser, use about a tablespoon of dried chamomile.

Step 2: Heat your water.
Use a tea kettle or pot to heat water for your tea. Heat the water until it boils. You should not let the water boil for long. Remove the water from the heat as soon as you see small bubbles forming.

Step 3: Discard the warm water in your mug (if you added it previously), and add the boiling water.
Dump out the tap water in your teacup or mug. Pour in the boiling water.

Step 4: Steep the tea for five minutes.
Place your infusion device in the water. Cover the tea and allow it steep for five minutes. Then, remove the infusion device or tea bag. You can now enjoy your tea.  If you want, you can flavor your tea with things like sugar, lemon, or honey. You can also drink the tea without any added ingredients. If you steep your tea longer, it will have more medicinal properties, but will taste stronger, too.

Step 5: Try adding honey.
If you want to add a bit of sweetness to your tea, try adding a small spoonful of honey. Honey has antifungal, antibacterial, and antimicrobial properties. It can potentially boost your health as well as sweetening your tea. Honey is very sweet, so a little goes a long way. Add only a small teaspoon of honey to a cup of tea.

Step 6: Add milk for a hint of sweetness.
If you dislike sweetening your tea too much, consider adding milk. Milk can add a mild, creamy flavor that is somewhat sweet. However, it will not make your tea too sugary. Just make sure not to use milk if you're lactose intolerant. Some people find milk helps them fall asleep. While the truth of this claim is unclear, if milk has helped you sleep in the past, it may help you fall asleep when mixed with chamomile tea.

Step 7: Use artificial sweeteners.
Sugar can add a lot of calories to tea unnecessarily. If you want to sweeten your tea, but do not want the extra calories found in sugar, opt for artificial sweeteners. Something like stevia, sold in most supermarkets, can be used to sweeten tea.

Step 8: Try fresh fruit or fruit products.
For a healthy option to sweeten your tea, go for fruit. Try adding a few slices of apple or a few blueberries to your tea. You can also add something like fruit juice to add a little sweetness to your tea. If you're trying to cut back on sugar, make sure to avoid juices with added sugar.