Task: How to Make A Homemade Dark Chocolate Bar

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Gather all of your ingredients and supplies.
By definition, dark chocolate is chocolate that has a higher concentration of cocoa butter and less milk. It’s actually possible to make dark chocolate without any milk at all, so it’s perfect if you can’t have dairy. Along with your ingredients, you're also gonna need:  A grater A double boiler A metal whisk A candy mold Optional yummy extras, like nuts or dried fruits.

Step 2: Heat up the double boiler.
In the bottom of the double boiler, fill the pot with an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place this over medium heat and let the water to come to a boil. If you don’t have a double boiler, don’t worry. Just fill the bottom of a regular saucepan with water, and use a metal or glass bowl as the top portion of the double boiler. Make sure the bowl isn’t touching the water or the chocolate will burn and all of your hard work will be ruined! Pour out some of the water if necessary.

Step 3: Grate and melt the cocoa butter.
Cocoa butter melts much faster if you grate it first. If you don’t have a grater or just want to save some time, you can cut the cocoa butter into small chunks instead. Once the water is boiling, put the cocoa butter in the top of the double boiler. Use the metal whisk to stir it frequently as it melts.  Interesting fact: wooden utensils can still contain moisture from the tree, which can leach into the chocolate and change its composition. Stick with metal utensils when mixing your chocolate.  Some recipes call for coconut oil instead of cocoa butter, but coconut oil will result in an oily chocolate that isn't as smooth, rich, and creamy as chocolate should be.

Step 4: Add in the remaining ingredients.
Once the cocoa butter has melted, add the cocoa powder and whisk to combine. When the cocoa powder melts and the mixture starts to take on a glossy appearance, whisk it until it becomes smooth and creamy.  When the chocolate is creamy and glossy, add the sugar and vanilla, and whisk to combine. Continue heating and whisking until the sugar is melted. Fee free to use honey, maple syrup, or any other sweetener in place of the sugar.

Step 5: Pour the chocolate into your mold.
Once all of the ingredients are melted and fully combined, pour the mixture evenly into your mold. Use a flat mixing spatula to distribute the chocolate in the mold if necessary.  Once the mold is full, go ahead and sprinkle in any additional ingredients you're using, like nuts or dried fruit. Try to distribute the ingredients evenly throughout the chocolate. You can use any mold you like for this chocolate, including a bar mold, heart shapes, or any other design. If you don’t have a chocolate mold, you can even use clean ice cube trays. You can also use dark chocolate to make chocolate chips, truffles, and other delicious confections.

Step 6: Cool the chocolate.
Set the chocolate aside to cool to room temperature so it doesn’t harden too quickly. Once it reaches room temperature, transfer the mold to an air-tight container and into the fridge to set for about an hour. It’s tempting to skip this part so you can enjoy your chocolate sooner, but don’t do it! If you put the chocolate in the fridge too quickly, it could bloom, which is when the surface of the chocolate becomes dull and streaked.

Step 7: Remove your chocolate from the mold.
Take the chocolate out of the fridge once it has set. To get it out of the mold, place the mold upside down on a flat surface, then peel the mold away from the chocolate.  If the mold is being stubborn, put the chocolate in the freezer for 5-10 minutes and then try again.  Gently tap the back of the mold with the butt end of a kitchen knife if the chocolate doesn’t come out right away. Or, you can gently tap the entire mold against a hard, flat surface to release it.
