Task: How to Make a Mocha Coffee Drink

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Gather your ingredients.
Here is what you'll need to make a mocha coffee drink using brewed coffee: Sugar (optional) Whipped cream and cocoa (optional, for topping)

Step 2: Brew as much coffee as you want.
To be closer to authentic, you'll want to use double-strength, dark-roasted coffee. And you could use instant coffee if you're in a pinch, but brewed coffee is just so much better. Coffee reaches "double-strength" when it's around 4 tablespoons (60 g) of coffee grinds to 6 ounces of water.

Step 3: Make a cafe-style chocolate syrup with warm water and sweetened cocoa powder.
Combine equal parts of each and stir up in a small bowl. You'll need about 2 tablespoons (30 g) for one mocha drink.

Step 4: In your mug, combine the chocolate syrup with your coffee.
The more coffee you have, the more chocolate syrup you'll probably want. But be sure to leave room for milk!

Step 5: Steam some milk or heat it on the stovetop or in the microwave.
How much? Well, how big is your mug? 1/3 to 1/2 cup (3 to 4 ounces) is usually plenty. You want the milk between 140 and 160°F (60 - 70°C). Any hotter than that and the milk burns, losing its flavor.

Step 6: Fill your mug with heated milk.
If there's any foam, be sure to hold it back with a spoon, so it layers above the mocha on top. If you like a really, really sweet mocha, add a teaspoon of sugar to your drink before you top it with foam.

Step 7: Top with whip cream, a sprinkling of cocoa powder, and enjoy!
Chocolate or caramel syrup -- or even cinnamon or turbinado sugar -- is a nice touch, too.

Step 8: Gather your ingredients.
Here's what you'll need to make a mocha coffee drink using espresso: Espresso Roast (regular or decaf) 2 tablespoons (30 g) hot water 1 tablespoon (15 g) unsweetened cocoa powder 1 tablespoon (15 g) sugar A pinch of salt 1/2 cup milk (any variety) 1 tablespoon flavored syrup (optional)

Step 9: Combine the hot water, cocoa powder, sugar, and salt right in your mug.
This will make the classic chocolate flavoring you can find in your favorite cafe; it will be so much more gratifying than just pouring Hershey's syrup into your coffee. That stuff is for children.

Step 10: Brew up some espresso.
You want enough to fill just about half of your mug. If you don't want that much caffeine, consider combining it with a decaf roast or using fewer beans in your brew.

Step 11: Steam 1/2 cup of milk.
If you have a steamer, of course. If you don't, you can just add your milk straight to your espresso and heat in the microwave or throw the milk onto the stovetop and heat to 160°F (70°C). But if you have an espresso machine, you probably have a steamer! Make sure the tip of your steamer isn't too near the bottom or too near the top of your milk. You want it not too be too bubbly and aerated, but also not burned and over-steamed. It should only take about 15 seconds, and if you have a thermometer, stop around 160°F (70°C). Is your mug Central Perk-style large? Then you may want closer to 3/4 of a cup.

Step 12: Add the steamed milk to your chocolate syrup.
But be sure to hold a large spoon to the edge of your steamed milk to hold back the foam. You want that stuff to go on top, after the milk and chocolate have combined. Once all the milk has gone into your mug, spoon out the foam so it rests uniformly on top, putting the proverbial icing on the cake.

Step 13: Add in your espresso.
Bam! Mocha created. If you have a flavored syrup lying around that you'd like to add (maybe caramel or raspberry), add it at this stage.

Step 14: Garnish with whip cream and a sprinkling of cocoa.
Because it's not enough that it tastes good, it's got to look good too. You can also top it with caramel, cinnamon, or turbinado sugar. Heck, birthday sprinkles and a cherry if you'd like. Now all you have to do is drink up!
