Task: How to cook a basic omelette

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Whisk 2 or 3 eggs with salt and pepper
Crack as many eggs as you'd like into a small bowl or dish. Then, sprinkle in salt and pepper according to your taste. Take a whisk or a fork and beat the eggs until the mixture is a uniform yellow color. Whisk for at least 10 seconds so the omelette is consistent in texture. You could also flavor the omelet with dry seasonings of your choice. Sprinkle a little curry powder or cajun seasoning, for instance.

Step 2: Melt 1 teaspoon (4.9 ml) of oil and 1 teaspoon (4 g) of butter in a skillet
Set an 8 or 9 in (20 or 23 cm) nonstick skillet on the stove and turn the burner to medium-low. Put 1 teaspoon (4.9 ml) of oil and 1 teaspoon (4 g) of butter into the pan so they melt and coat the bottom of the skillet.  Use your favorite oil, such as vegetable, sunflower, canola, or olive oil. The oil prevents the butter from burning in the skillet. If you prefer, you could use all butter or all oil instead.

Step 3: Pour the beaten eggs into the pan
Once the skillet is hot and the butter is foaming, slowly pour the beaten eggs into it. Hold the handle and slowly tilt the pan until the egg mixture coats the entire surface of the skillet. Keep the burner at medium-low heat so the omelette cooks evenly. If the burner is up too high, the omelette will become rubbery.

Step 4: Cook the omelette and tilt the pan mixture until the omelette's almost set
Leave the eggs to cook for about 20 seconds before stirring the edges of the skillet with a rubber spatula. Scoot the curds along the edges towards the center of the skillet. Then, tilt the skillet so the egg mixture runs to the empty edges of the skillet. Cook the omelette until it's set, but still slightly glossy on top. This should take about 1 minute.

Step 5: Add your choice of fillings if you want to make a heartier omelette
Although you don't need to add any fillings to a basic omelette, it's easy to customize one. Sprinkle about 1/3 cup (78 g) of fillings over 1/2 of the omelette. You could use:  Shredded cheese, such as cheddar, monterey jack, or colby jack Sautéed vegetables, such as mushrooms, bell peppers, or onions Diced cooked meat, such as ham, sausage, chorizo, or bacon

Step 6: Turn off the burner and fold the omelette in half
Take a rubber spatula and gently lift up the edges of the omelette on 1 side. Then, slide the spatula under the omelette and lift 1/2 of the omelette over to the other side. Slide the omelette onto a serving plate and enjoy it while it's hot. Although the omelette has the best texture immediately after cooking, you can refrigerate leftovers in an airtight container for up to 3 days.