Task: How to make basic scones

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C)
Make sure that there is nothing inside your oven and that the baking rack is positioned in the center.

Step 2: Mix all of the dry ingredients in a bowl
Pour the flour, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, and salt into a large bowl and stir with a fork or whisk until everything is well-blended.  For less-sweet scones, use 3 tablespoons of sugar. For sweeter scones, increase the sugar to 1/3 cup (65 grams). For savory scones, omit the sugar.

Step 3: Cut the butter into small cubes and add it to the flour mixture
Cutting the butter will make it more manageable and easier to mix.

Step 4: Mix the butter and flour mix until it resembles a coarse, crumbly meal
You can use a pastry blade or your hands. The crumbles should be roughly the size of peas. Do not over-work the dough, however; this will result in tough, overly-dense scones. To make chocolate chip scones, add ½ cup (90 grams) of semi-sweet chocolate chips and stir. For more ideas on what you can add in, click here.

Step 5: Pour the cream or half-and-half into the dough a little bit at a time and mix it
Start with a few tablespoons of the liquid, and keep adding and stirring until the dough starts to come away from the sides of the bowl and clump up. You may end up using a little less/more than ½ cup (120 milliliters) of your liquid. To give your scones a little more flavor, consider adding 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract to the cream or half-and-half.

Step 6: Cover the dough with plastic wrap and put it into the refrigerator
Leave it there for 15 to 20 minutes. This will give the butter enough time to cool back down, making the dough easier to handle later on.

Step 7: Prepare your egg wash
Mix one egg with ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of cream, half-and-half, or milk. Beat the mixture with a fork or whisk until the yolk is all broken up and there are no streaks. You will be spreading this on your scones later on.

Step 8: Cut the dough in half and put one of the halves back into the fridge
You are cutting the dough in half so that you don't end up over-rolling the dough, which could lead to a tough pastry. Putting the dough back into the fridge will prevent it from becoming too soft too soon. Be sure that you cover the dough going back into the fridge with some plastic wrap.

Step 9: Transfer the dough onto a lightly-floured surface and roll it out
Make it somewhere between ¾ to 1 inch (2 to 2.5 centimeters) thick, but not thinner or it will not rise enough. Keep in mind, however, that the thicker your dough is, the longer it will need to bake. You can create a line in the centre of your scones to cut through when they are baked and ready to fill with cream or butter by rolling out to half the thickness you require then folding your scone mix in half. Cut through both layers to form the individual scones.

Step 10: Cut the scones using a knife or cookie cutter
There are several ways you can do this. Here are some ideas:  Make traditional scones by cutting the dough into a 9-inch (23-centimeter) circle, and then slicing it into eight wedges like a pizza or pie.  Make round scones by cutting circles out of the dough using a drinking glass or a circle-shaped cookie cutter. Using a sharp knife, cut the scones into squares.

Step 11: Transfer the scones onto a baking sheet
To prevent sticking, consider covering your baking sheet with some parchment paper. If you have more baking sheets and enough room in your oven, you can roll and cut the other half of the dough; otherwise, you will have to wait until the first batch is done baking.

Step 12: Brush the scones with the egg wash
Dip a brush into the egg wash, and lightly run the bristles over the tops of the scones. This will give the scones a shiny texture after you bake them.

Step 13: Transfer the scones into the oven and bake for 15 to 20 minutes
The scones are done once they turn golden brown.

Step 14: Cool the scones on a wire rack
Carefully lift the scones off the baking sheet using a spatula and transfer them to a wire rack. Wait about five minutes for them to cool.

Step 15: Serve the scones
You can serve them plain or you can decorate them by drizzling some sugar glaze over them. You can also serve plain scones with some clotted cream or jam.