Task: How to make rosemary oil using fresh rosemary

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Wash and measure the rosemary
Wash a few sprigs of fresh rosemary under cold, running water to remove any dirt and debris. Next, remove the leaves from the stem and measure out about a cup of leaves. Leftover rosemary leaves can be discarded or set aside for other recipes.

Step 2: Fill a small saucepan with oil
Measure out two cups of oil and pour them into a small saucepan. Most people prefer to use olive oil for its flavor, cooking uses, and cosmetic applications. However, if you’re planning on exclusively using your oil for beauty purposes, you can use jojoba oil or sweet almond oil. Jojoba oil and sweet almond oil should not be eaten or used in cooking.

Step 3: Heat the rosemary in the oil
Add the rosemary sprigs to the saucepan. Place the pan over low heat on your stove. Heat the rosemary for five to ten minutes, stirring constantly. As the oil warms up, it will begin to smell like rosemary. If the oil begins bubbling around the rosemary, the oil is too hot. Reduce the heat and stir.

Step 4: Strain and cool the oil
Place a metal colander in a large metal bowl. Pour the oil mixture into the colander to strain out the rosemary pieces. Discard the leftover pieces of rosemary and let the oil cool in the bowl.  Metal strainers and cheesecloths can also be used to strain the oil. Make sure the oil has cooled before using these tools.

Step 5: Bottle the oil
Once the oil has cooled to room temperature, it can be poured into a clean bottle. Label the bottle with the bottling date and the ingredients used. However, resist the urge to add a sprig of rosemary to the bottle. It looks pretty, but it can cause harmful bacteria to grow in the oil.

Step 6: Refrigerate the oil
Oils infused with fresh herbs should be refrigerated and used within the week. This will prevent the growth of any harmful bacteria that could cause the oil to become rancid. If the oil is a gift, be sure to include a “use by” date on the label.
