Task: How to Make Milk-Based Ricotta Cheese

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Prepare the strainer.
Line the fine-mesh strainer with a large piece of cheesecloth, and set it over the nonreactive bowl. Set this contraption on your work surface so to have it ready for the cheese mixture. If you don't use cheesecloth, it will be difficult to separate the cheese curds from the whey. You can substitute a double layer of paper towels or a thin cotton dishcloth in a pinch.

Step 2: Heat the milk, cream and salt.
Place the milk, cream and salt in the saucepan and heat the mixture over medium-high heat. Allow it to heat until it reaches 200 degrees F. When the mixture is hot enough, turn off the heat and move the saucepan so the milk can begin to cool. It should take about 5 minutes to reach the correct temperature. Stir the mixture as it's heating to prevent it from scorching on the bottom. Use raw milk if you can since the natural bacteria will help the cheese ferment. Use your candy thermometer or an instant-read thermometer to determine whether the mixture has reached the right temperature. If you don't let it cook long enough, the curds won't separate from the whey. If you overcook it, the texture will be ruined.

Step 3: Slowly add the vinegar.
Use one hand to stir constantly while the other hand slowly pours the vinegar into the heated milk and cream mixture. The vinegar will cause the curds to coagulate and separate from the whey. You'll see solid bits forming and floating to the top of the liquid. Keep stirring until all of the vinegar has been added. The curdling agent in this case is vinegar, but some people prefer to use other substances. Try substituting 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of lemon juice for a different flavor. For a more traditional touch, try using animal rennet as your coagulant. Mix 1 teaspoon of rennet with 1/4 cup of cold water, then stir it into the milk mixture.

Step 4: Let the mixture sit until it's thick.
Wait about 10 - 20 minutes for the coagulant to go to work and cause the curds to separate from the whey. It's ready when the curds have floated to the top to form a thick layer, leaving the liquid whey underneath.

Step 5: Ladle the curds into the strainer.
Scoop out the thick top layer of curds and ladle them over the cheesecloth-covered strainer. Keep ladling out the curds until all that's left in the saucepan is the whey. You can discard the whey at this point.

Step 6: Let the ricotta drain.
Wait at least an hour for the last of the whey to drain from the ricotta through the cheesecloth into the bowl. It will take about half an hour for the ricotta to fully drain. Don't attempt to stir it or push it through the cheesecloth, as this will just push the curds into the cloth. If you'd like a creamier final product, stop draining the ricotta after 5 - 10 minutes. For a drier final product, wait an hour for it to drain.

Step 7: Spoon the ricotta into a bowl.
The finished ricotta is now ready to use in your favorite recipe. It's delicious as part of a savory dish or a dessert. Ricotta will keep in the refrigerator for about a week.
