Task: How to make fresh churros

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Whip the two eggs together with the vanilla in a small bowl
It should be well blended and mixed. When done, set it aside for later. To make richer churros, you can add 1-2 more eggs, though this is totally up to taste.

Step 2: Heat up 1-1/2" of oil in a large frying pan until 375°F
If you don't have a candy thermometer, keep everything on medium-low, and you'll be ready just as small amounts of "smoke" is rising from the top of the oil. If you drop a small test ball of dough in, the oil should immediately start bubbling.  A thick-bottomed pan is always your best bet, as they hold heat much better than thinner pans. You can also wait to pre-heat the oil until after you've made the dough. However, this can take some time, so starting now is a good idea if you think you can do the dough quickly. If you do, just keep the burner on medium, not high, to prevent burning.

Step 3: In a medium saucepan, add the water, brown sugar, salt, and butter and heat until boiling
Stir it frequently, until everything is well dissolved and the mixture is bubbling nicely. Once it is a consistent, boiling mixture, immediately lower the heat to low.

Step 4: Add the flour to the hot water mixture all at once, stirring until a firm dough
This takes some arms, so really get in there with a wooden spoon to stir everything up into it is well blended. Turn the heat off when done.

Step 5: Pour the egg/vanilla mixture in and stir until you have a consistent dough
You should have a glossy ball of dough when you've mixed everything up completely. If you pull up on the dough sharply, it should keep it's hook shape. If it doesn't add and beat in another egg. Let the batter sit for at least half an hour before you do anything with it.

Step 6: Consider how you want to make the long, round shapes churros are famous for
There are a lot of ways to turn your ball of dough into long, delicious churros, and none of them are wrong. Use whatever works for you, making long, thin, cylindrical treats:    The simplest method, simply pull off a 2" ball of dough and roll it between your hands to form a snake-like shape, roughly 1/2" thick.   Usually used for icing, these have star-shaped tips that will get the ridges found on fairground churros. Pack the dough where the icing goes and then push it through to make perfect, even logs of dough.    Take a large freezer back and fill it with dough. Then cut the bottom corner off the bag to form a small opening. Squeeze the dough through this whole to make your logs.

Step 7: Fry the logs in hot oil until golden brown on all sides, turning frequently
The total cooking time will depend on how thick the churros are, but you should be able to tell easily when they are done, as the outsides will be an alluring golden brown. Don't put more than 3-4 churros in the pan at once -- too much will drop the temperature of the oil rapidly, leading to greasy churros.

Step 8: Drain the finished churros on paper towels
Set them aside on a plate of paper towels, then lightly pat down the tops with more paper towels to get rid of excess oil.

Step 9: Combine white sugar and cinnamon in a small bowl and roll the churros in the mixture
You've got your finished churros! Combine them in as much or as little cinnamon sugar as you want -- they'll be delicious either way. Some people take things a step further by drizzling the finished churros in chocolate sauce, too.