Task: How to Cook Sausages by Pan-Frying

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Heat 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil in a skillet over medium heat.
Use a heavy-bottomed pan like a cast-iron skillet since they conduct heat really well. Give the oil a few minutes to heat up in the pan before you add the sausages. If you don't have olive oil, it's fine to use butter or vegetable oil.

Step 2: Cut the sausages in half lengthwise if they're large.
Narrow or small sausages cook quickly in a skillet, but big sausages like andouille take a lot longer to cook. To cut back on cooking time and give your sausages more flavor, slice them in half.  Feel free to cut the sausages into even smaller pieces. Cutting the sausages increases their surface area so more of the sausage caramelizes in the skillet. This translates to amazing flavor!

Step 3: Add the sausages to the skillet and cook them for 5 minutes.
If you cut the sausages, place them flat-side down in the skillet. If they're whole, just lay them in the skillet so there's a little space between each one. Then, cook the sausages, turning them occasionally with tongs, until they're browned.  If the sausages don't sizzle when they hit the skillet, turn up the heat to medium-high. If you'd like to cook a lot of sausages, use a large skillet or cook them in batches.

Step 4: Add ⁄2  c (120 ml) of water and cook them for another 7 to 15 minutes.
Cover the skillet as soon as you add the water so you trap the steam. Then, cook the sausages until they're completely done in the center. This method ensures that the centers of the sausages cook completely, but you still get that rich, dark exterior. To check if the sausages are done, insert an instant-read meat thermometer into the center of the thickest sausage to see if it has reached 160 °F (71 °C).  Keep in mind that if you're cooking small sausages, like breakfast sausages, they may only need 5 to 10 minutes to finish cooking. Remove the lid carefully so steam doesn't rush into your face. Rest the sausages for a few minutes before you serve them. Resting helps redistribute juices within the meat so it won't spill out when you cut the sausages.
