Task: How to Steam Siomai

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Make a crunchy pork and shrimp filling.
Mince 1 cup (150 g) onions, 1 cup (50 g) of carrots, 1½ cups (115 g) of white mushrooms, 2 cups (248 g) of water chestnuts, and 1 cup (325 g) of shrimp. Put these in a mixing bowl and stir in ⁄ pounds (1.1 kg) of ground pork, 5 tablespoons (74 ml) of sesame oil, and 1 tablespoon (7 g) of ground black pepper. Mix until all of the spices and ingredients are combined.

Step 2: Mix together a flavorful ground beef filling.
Put 1 ⁄ pounds (0.68 kg) of ground beef into a mixing bowl and stir in 3/4 cup (115 g) of minced onion, 3/4 cup (40 g) of minced carrots, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon (5.5 g) of salt, and 1/2 teaspoon (1 g) of pepper. Stir until the spices and egg are completely mixed into the ground beef.

Step 3: Combine a chicken and shrimp filling.
Measure 2 pounds (0.91 kg) of ground chicken and ¾ cup (245 g) of minced shrimp into a bowl. Stir in ⁄ cup (59 ml) of sesame oil, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil, 1 cup (75 g) of minced white mushrooms, 1 egg, 1 minced onion, and 1 cup (50 g) of minced carrots. Mix in: 1 crumbled chicken bouillion cube ½ teaspoon (1 g) ground black pepper 1 teaspoon (3 g) garlic powder 2 teaspoons (11 g) salt

Step 4: Measure 1 tablespoon (8 g) of the filling into the center of 1 wrapper.
Get out a 12 to 16-ounce (340 to 454 g) package of won ton wrappers and remove 1 from the stack. Spoon 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) (8 g) of your prepared filling into the center of the wrapper. Use square won ton wrappers to make your siomai. If you can only find round wrappers, you'll need to shape them so the edges simply overlap.

Step 5: Wet the edges of the wrapper and fold the corners in toward the center.
Dip your index finger into a little water and run it along the edges of the won ton wrapper. Then bring 2 opposite corners up towards each other so they meet in the center.

Step 6: Bring the other 2 corners towards the center and seal the sides.
Pinch the corners that you've gathered at the center of the wrapper so they stay together. Then dip your fingers in the water again and run your fingers along the sides so they seal. Try to push out air that could be trapped between the filling and the won ton wrapper. This will prevent air pockets from forming when the siomai steam.

Step 7: Squeeze the siomai gently and unfurl the wrapper near the top.
Hold the assembled siomai and squeeze gently so the filling compresses a little. Keep ahold of the dumpling and use the fingers of your other hand to carefully peel back the wrapper near the top. Unfurling the wrapper near the top will help expose about 1-in (2.5 cm) of the filling. Assemble the remaining siomai until you run out of filling.

Step 8: Wrap the corners along the bottom of the siomai.
Dip your fingers in water again and touch them to the corners near the base of the dumpling. Press and fold the corner down and to the right. Repeat this for each corner so they're all wrapped in the same direction.

Step 9: Bring 2 in (5 m) of water to boil in a large pot or skillet.
Set the pot or skillet on the stove and turn the burner to high. The water should bubble vigorously. If you're using a metal steamer basket, use a pot so you can nestle the steamer basket inside. If you're using a bamboo steamer, you can set it inside a pot or place it directly onto a skillet of the same diameter.

Step 10: Arrange the siomai in the steamer basket.
Put the assembled siomai into the steamer basket or bamboo steamer. Leave about 1/2 in (1.3 cm) between each dumpling. Consider placing pieces of napa cabbage in the bottom of the steamer before you put the siomai in. The cabbage will prevent the siomai from sticking to the steamer basket.

Step 11: Put the steamer into the pot andsteamthe siomai for 15 to 20 minutes.
Lower the steamer basket into the pot or place the bamboo steamer directly onto the skillet. Cover the pot or put the lid on the bamboo steamer. Steam until the filling inside the siomai reaches 165 °F (74 °C) with an instant read thermometer. Ensure that the boiling water doesn't touch the bottom of the steamer. There should be at least 1 in (2.5 cm) of space between the water and the steamer. You may need to steam the siomai in batches. Remember to bring the water back to a boil before steaming another batch of siomai.

Step 12: Serve the siomai immediately.
Once you remove the siomai from the steamer basket, arrange them on a serving plate. Set out soy sauce to dip the siomai in. Garnish the siomai with minced scallions and slices of calamansi, lime, or lemon. While you can refrigerate leftover siomai in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 or 4 days, the texture is best immediately after steaming.
