Task: How to Make Waffles with Pancake Mix

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Preheat the waffle iron.
Plug your waffle iron in and heat it for at least ten minutes. The iron can heat while you prepare the waffle batter.

Step 2: Measure the pancake mix, water, oil, egg yolk, and sugar into a bowl.
You'll need to add other ingredients to your pancake mix to improve the texture of your waffles. Measure 1 cup (250 g) pf pancake mix, 3/4 cup (180 ml) of water, 1/4 cup (60 ml) of oil, 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar, and 1 large egg yolk into a mixing bowl.  Extra water, oil, and sugar will ensure that the waffle becomes crisp and brown on the outside while it stays fluffy on the inside. If you'd like to double the recipe (to make one dozen waffles), just double all of the ingredients.

Step 3: Whisk the batter.
Use a wire whisk to combine the batter ingredients in the mixing bowl. Stop whisking as soon as the mixture is combined and set it aside. Don't worry if the batter is still a little lumpy. You want to avoid over beating it or the waffles will be tough.

Step 4: Beat the egg whites to stiff peaks.
Get out another mixing bowl and place the two large egg whites into it. Use a stand or hand mixer to whisk the whites on high speed. Keep whisking until they form stiff peaks when you lift the whisk out of the bowl.

Step 5: Fold the egg whites
Transfer the egg whites to the bowl with the batter and gently fold them in until they're just combined. Take a metal spoon and twist your wrist as you lift the batter up and over the egg whites. Keep lifting and turning the batter until the egg whites are incorporated.

Step 6: Pour the batter into the hot waffle iron.
Once the waffle iron is hot, scoop 1/2 cup (about 120 g) of the batter into the center of the waffle iron. Slowly lower the lid on the batter.

Step 7: Cook and remove the waffle.
Cook the waffle for a few minutes or until steam isn't coming out of the waffle iron anymore. Carefully lift up the lid use a fork to lift the waffle out. Cooking time will depend on your specific waffle iron. Most waffles will cook within two to four minutes.
