Task: How to make coconut milk-based ice cream for vegans

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Freeze the bowl or your ice cream maker at least 24 hours ahead of time
If you do not have an ice cream maker, don't worry; you can still make this ice cream.

Step 2: Pour all of the ingredients into a blender or food processor
Try to use coconut cream if you can; it will give you the creamiest ice cream. If you cannot find any, you can use full-fat coconut milk. Be sure to shake the cans well before opening them and pouring the contents into the blender/food processor.

Step 3: Add some flavor, if desired
This recipe will give you basic vanilla-coconut flavored ice cream. You can add some extra ingredients to enhance the flavor of your ice cream, however. Here are some idea to get you started:  If you want chocolate ice cream, increase the sweetener to ⅔ cup (135 grams) and add ¾ cup (75 grams) of cocoa powder.  For mint chocolate chip ice cream: use ½ teaspoon of mint extract instead of vanilla extract, and ½ cup (65 grams) of powdered sugar instead of your usual sweetener. If you want the ice cream to be green, add 2 drops of green gel food coloring.  If you want to make strawberry ice cream, purée 2½ to 3 cups (500 to 600 grams) of sliced, frozen strawberries, then add the rest of the ingredients. You may want to decrease the sweetener to ⅓ cup (65 grams) and the vanilla extract to ¼ teaspoon.

Step 4: Blend the ingredients together until everything turns smooth
This should only take 1 to 2 minutes. From time to time, you may have to pause the blender/food processor, and scrape any lumps or clumps down the sides and towards the bottom.

Step 5: Freeze the ice cream base in your ice cream maker
Follow the instructions that came with your ice cream maker, as each one will be a little different. It will take about 20 minutes for the ice cream to freeze. If you don't have an ice cream maker: pour the mixture into a metal loaf pan and stir in your extras. Put it into the freezer, and cover it with a sheet of wax paper. Stir it every 30 to 60 minutes with a whisk. It will take about 6 hours for the ice cream to freeze.

Step 6: Stir in any desired extras using a rubber spatula
At this point, your ice cream is done and ready for freezing. You can, however, step it up by adding in ¼ to ½ cup (50 to 100 grams) of extras, such as chopped nuts, sprinkles, or chocolate chips. Be sure to match your extras to the base flavor!  If you are making mint chocolate chip ice cream, you might want to stir in ¼ cup (45 grams) of chocolate chips (dark chocolate or vegan).  If you are making strawberry ice cream, you might want to stir in ¼ cup (50 grams) of chopped, frozen strawberries.

Step 7: Transfer the ice cream into a freezer-safe container, and freeze it for at least 4 hours
If the container does not have a lid, press a piece of wax paper over the ice cream's surface. This will prevent ice crystals from forming.