Task: How to Make Almond Milk

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Gather the ingredients.
You'll need: 1.5 cups or 220 grams (7.8 oz) of raw almonds (unsalted, uncooked) 4 cups or 940 milliliters of filtered or spring water, plus water for soaking 1 vanilla bean; scoop out the seeds; alternatively, use 1/2 teaspoon vanilla essence or extract

Step 2: Soak the almonds in water overnight.
Do this for at least 8 hours, up to about 12 hours. The soaking softens them well for use, but is optional. Drain the water from the almonds.

Step 3: Blend the almonds in 4 cups of fresh spring or filtered water.
Add the vanilla extract and continue blending until well mixed. You may find 4 cups a little too watery; if this concerns you, try 3 to 3.5 cups and add more if needed.

Step 4: Sweeten to taste if desired.
If you want to sweeten the almond milk, add rice syrup, honey or other reasonably healthy sweetener, to taste.

Step 5: Strain.
This is very important or you will be drinking almond pulp as well as the milk. Using something like a very fine strainer or sieve, or several layers of cheesecloth (muslin), pour the almond milk through the filter into a large bowl underneath. The filter will retain the almond pulp and the liquid will go through. Squeeze the remaining pulp to remove the last of the liquid. It is easier if done using a cloth; otherwise, use your very clean hands. The almond meal left over can be dried and used to add more fiber to your diet

Step 6: Store.
Almond milk can be kept in the refrigerator for 4-7 days, covered. It will usually need shaking before serving, to remix the liquid.

Step 7: Use.
Almond milk can be used with a range of foods where you would use dairy milk, such as for cooking, for cereals, for drinking, etc. Those who love almond milk often find drinking it is best.For Some others no,

Step 8: Gather the ingredients.
You'll need: 1 cup dry almonds 3 cups water 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract or essence Dry coconut or coconut milk (optional, for flavor).

Step 9: Chop the dry almonds up very finely.


Step 10: Pour the finely chopped almonds into a 1 quart plastic bottle.
Add 3 cups of water. Add extra flavor if desired. Add some dry coconut with the nuts in blender, or coconut milk with the water.

Step 11: Add half teaspoon of vanilla.


Step 12: Shake this mixture together for a few minutes.
Place in the refrigerator for about a day; shake often during the day.

Step 13: Shake and pour over cereal for best nutrition.
Alternatively, filter with muslin or a cheesecloth if you don't want the almond meal in with the cereal.
