Task: How to make traditional spicy salsa verde

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Peeling
Peel your tomatillo, onion, and garlic cloves. Make sure to stop peeling once they have that shiny consistency and have no more skin to peel. The garlic cloves are a special case after you've peeled the main base or your "head", begin to separate garlic cloves stuck to each other. After you've done that, peel 3 cloves until they reach that shiny and yellowish consistency and have no more skin left to peel. After you've done that set the peeled ingredients aside on the cutting board.

Step 2: Removal
Next, remove the hooked tail of the jalapenos, second, cut your cilantro on the cutting board in half to remove the stick or the bottom of the cilantro (only the leafs of the cilantro will be used so throw the sticks away or place them in a cool place). After you've done that place those aside on the cutting board next to the peeled ingredients.

Step 3: Cleanse
Turn on the sink water and have it run at a temperate temperature. First, grab your cilantro bunch and keep it together so it doesn't fall apart when rinsing. Next, you rinse your cilantro under the sink water for 15-25 seconds, make sure the cilantro gets rinsed thoroughly while still keeping it together. Third, after you've finished rinsing your cilantro make sure to shake it lightly to remove any excessive water. After you've done that set the cilantro aside on the cutting board.NOTICE: make sure to keep the water running for your next step

Step 4: Cleanse #2
After you've placed your cilantro aside. Grab your plastic container and place your jalapenos and tomatillos inside the container. Next. fill the container up halfway with the running water. Rinse your ingredients thoroughly inside the container for 20-30 seconds. Third, remove your jalapenos and tomatillos from the container and place them aside on the cutting board. Go back to the container and dump the water out into the sink and leave it there to be cleaned.

Step 5: Boiling
Grab your medium pot and place it on your cook-top. Next, place your tomatillos and jalapenos inside the pot and add your 3 cups of water. Then, turn on the cook-top heat to medium and let your jalapenos and tomatillos boil until the water starts foaming and your tomatillos start becoming a lighter color. Turn off your cook-top and then grab the pot with oven mitts and place the pot on top of the cutting board.

Step 6: Add
Grab your blender and place the jalapenos and tomatillos inside the blender cup using a large spoon. With the same boiling water place 1/4 cup of water and dump it inside your blender cup. After you've put the hot water in the blender cup grab your garlic cloves and put them inside the blender cup.

Step 7: Blend
Next cut the 1/2 onion on the cutting board in half and place it inside the blender cup then add your 1 tablespoon of table salt which also goes inside the blender cup. Then put the top on your blender cup and place it on the blender to blend the ingredients on a high setting for 2 minutes. After you've blended it for 2 minutes remove the blender cup and the top of the blender cup and pour your salsa verde into your bowl.

Step 8: Cilantro
Grab the set aside cilantro and fold it in half then mince your cilantro while holding and pressuring it against the cutting board while keeping the cilantro folded in half. Keep your fingers out of the way while mincing the cilantro. Once your cilantro is minced place 1/2 of your minced cilantro in the salsa.

Step 9: Cut
Grab your avocado as shown in the picture and slowly roll it while cutting it. Once cut, pry it open and scoop out the pit/seed with a small spoon and set it aside on the cutting board. 

Step 10: Avocado
Then carefully peel off the skin of the avocado while keeping the avocados shape. Next, place your peeled avocados pit face down on the cutting board and proceed to cut it into cubes. After the avocados cut place the avocados inside the salsa.

Step 11: Pit
Add your set aside avocado pit into the salsa. This is a crucial step to this recipe because not only does it keep the flavor within the salsa but it also keeps it fresh longer so you can come back to your salsa everyday with the same spiciness and flavor as before.

Step 12: Mix
Once everything is inside the salsa mix it all together thoroughly with a small spoon so the avocado is not stuck together.

Step 13: Enjoy!
 Thank you mom for teaching me this amazing recipe so I can share with others your traditional way of making food. Now you can make salsa verde whenever you want right at home.