Task: How to Make Dried Orange Slices

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Cut the orange widthwise into 1 cm (0.39 in) slices.
Consider the stem side the “North Pole” of the orange and orient it so it’s on its side. Carefully use a sharp kitchen knife to create even slices. Discard the first and last slices (the “North” and “South Poles”). For the best results, use ripe (but not over-ripe) oranges without bruises or blemishes.

Step 2: Blot away any surface moisture with paper towels.
Lay all the cut slices on a plate or tray, then dab them with a paper towel to soak up any surface moisture. Turn the slices over and repeat the process with another clean paper towel. This step isn’t absolutely necessary, but it will help the slices to dry out faster. Use plain white paper towels. Decorated paper towels can sometimes transfer colored spots onto the slices.

Step 3: Spike the cut slices with cloves to make decorations.
Use a knife tip to cut a small hole through each fresh orange slice, just inside the rings of pith and skin, so you can loop a string through each opening after the slices are dried. Press a clove, star side up, into the center of each orange slice. Then, if desired, create a ring of cloves around the inside perimeter of the slice. After the slices are dried, simply tie a colorful yarn or string through the hole in each slice so you can hang them. Dried orange slices decorated with cloves are a traditional Christmas tree and wreath ornament in the UK. You can skip the cloves if desired.

Step 4: Sprinkle on seasonings to make a sweet treat out of the slices.
Lay the fresh slices on a plate or tray, then sprinkle them with white sugar, brown sugar, or coconut sugar. Follow up with a dusting of cinnamon, ginger, or both. Or, try other spice combinations until you find your favorite! Once dried, the seasoned slices make a great snack or dessert garnish. If you want to use a slice as a drink garnish, cut a line in a fresh slice from the center through the skin on its perimeter. This will become a small wedge-shaped cutout once the slice is dried. Use seedless oranges for snacking, or pick the seeds out of the slices before drying them.

Step 5: Set your oven at 65 °C (149 °F), or as low as possible.
If your oven does not permit a setting this low, put it as low as it will go. At 65 °C (149 °F), it will usually take about 3.5-4.5 hours to dry the orange slices. At 95 °C (203 °F), it will typically take 2.5-3.5 hours. At 120 °C (248 °F), expect it to take 2-3 hours. Even though it takes longer, aim for the lowest temperature you can. This greatly reduces the chances of burning the slices instead of drying them.

Step 6: Space out the slices on an oven rack or another wire rack.
Remove the oven rack from the preheating oven, or use an oven-safe wire rack. Lay out the slices on the rack so that they have at least 5 cm (2.0 in) of space on all sides. Spacing the slices out on a wire rack improves the air flow and decreases the drying time. Using a baking sheet may increase the drying time by up to double. If you do choose to use a baking sheet, line it with parchment paper so the slices don’t stick.

Step 7: Put the rack in the oven and turn the slices every 30-45 minutes.
Frequent turning helps keep the slices from sticking. It also reduces the chances of burning, especially if the oven is at a slightly higher temperature. Simply pull the tray from the oven and use tongs to flip the slices when it’s time to turn them.

Step 8: Let the slices cool on the rack when they look and feel dry.
Pull the slices from the oven as soon as they look fully dried and feel dried out when you touch them with the tongs. Let them cool to the touch on the rack, then confirm with your fingers that they feel completely dried. It may take up to 30 minutes for the slices to cool to room temperature.
