Task: How to make whipped cream from milk

--- Plan ---

Step 1: Combine water and unflavored gelatin, then wait 5 minutes
Pour 1⁄4 cup (59 mL) of cold water into a small or medium-sized saucepan. Sprinkle 2 teaspoons (10 g) of unflavored gelatin over the water. Wait 5 minutes for the gelatin to absorb the water and turn spongy. Do not turn the heat on the stove just yet.  If you don't have gelatin or prefer not to use it, use agar agar instead.  For a richer cream, use ⁄4 cup (59 mL) of cold whole milk instead of water.  Do not use Jello or flavored gelatin. It contains additional sugars and flavors, which may affect the overall flavor of the cream.

Step 2: Cook the mixture over low-heat until it turns clear, stirring often
This should only take a few minutes. It the mixture takes too long to heat up, use medium-low heat instead. Once the gelatin dissolves and the water turns clear, you're ready for the next step.

Step 3: Let the mixture cool, then whisk it into whole milk for a few seconds
Take the saucepan off the burner and set it aside so that it can cool to room temperature. Next, pour 1 cup (240 mL) of milk into a bowl, then add in the cooled gelatin mixture. Stir it with a whisk for about 20 to 30 seconds to combine.  How long it takes for the gelatin mixture to cool depends on the temperature in your kitchen. It will probably take around 10 to 15 minutes. You must use whole milk, as it has a higher fat content. Other types of milk won't give you the same results due to their low-fat content.

Step 4: Whisk in the powdered sugar and vanilla extract
Pour in ½ tablespoon (7.5 mL) of vanilla extract and ¼ cup (30 g) of powdered sugar. Stir the mixture once more with a whisk until the color and texture are consistent, and no streaks or lumps remain.  You can use a different type of extract if you prefer a different flavor, such as almond. You must use powdered, icing, or confectioners sugar. Do not use regular, granulated sugar. For a less-sweet cream, use just 2 tablespoons (15 g) of powdered and omit the vanilla extract.

Step 5: Refrigerate the mixture for about 90 minutes, stirring it every 15 minutes
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and place it in the fridge. Every 15 to 20 minutes, take the bowl out of the fridge, give the mixture a brief stir with a whisk, then put it back into the fridge. Do this a few more times until 60 to 90 minutes have passed.  As the mixture sits in the fridge, the ingredients will start to come together and thicken. Whisking the mixture will prevent the ingredients from separating. For better results, chill your whisk as well. This will help speed up the overall process and prevent separating.

Step 6: Whip the mixture with a hand-held mixer until it turns creamy
Take the bowl out of the fridge and begin to whip the mixture with a hand-held mixer. Keep mixing until the mixture thickens and starts to form soft peaks.  Make sure that you go all around the edges of the bowl as you mix. The cream will double in size as you whip it. How long this takes depends on the temperature of the cream, the speed of your mixer, and your desired consistency. It shouldn't take more than a few seconds, however. If you don't have a hand-held mixer, you can use an electric mixer or a food processor fitted with whisks instead.

Step 7: Store the whipped cream in the fridge for up to 2 days
A glass jar or bottle with a lid will work the best. Not only will it help preserve the flavor, but it will be more convenient to use. Avoid plastic containers, as the chemicals can leach into the cream and affect the flavor.  Although this cream is similar to what you would get with heavy cream, it is not quite the same thing. It is best used for toppings (i.e.: waffles, pancakes, strawberries, etc.) or cake fillings.